Add mdoc remote presentation (#984)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/remote-flow.rst

      Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
      Accept: application/oauth-authz-req+jwt
    

>       wallet_metadata=%7B%22authorization_endpoint%22%3A%20%22eudiw%3A%22%2C%20%22response_types_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22vp_token%22%5D%2C%20%22response_modes_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22query%22%5D%2C%20%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%20%7B%22dc%2Bsd-jwt%22%3A%20%7B%22sd-jwt_alg_values%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%2C%20%22ES384%22%5D%7D%2C%22mso_mdoc%22%3A%7B%22issuerauth_alg_values%22%3A%5B-7%2C-35%2C-36%5D%2C%22deviceauth_alg_values%22%3A%5B-7%2C-35%2C-36%5D%7D%7D%2C%22request_object_signing_alg_values_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%5D%2C%22client_id_prefixes_supported%22%3A%5B%22openid_federation%22%2C%22x509_hash%22%5D%7D&wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u

Reviewer: Update the algorithm values based on the ESP for both sd jwt and mso mdoc algorithms

          ],
          "vp_formats_supported": {
            "dc+sd-jwt": {

>                 "sd-jwt_alg_values": ["ES256", "ES384"]

Reviewer: As it is mentioned [here](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9864#section-4.2.2), the ECDSA w/ SHA-256 (ES256) is deprecated, and either the NIST curve (ESP) or the brainpool curve (ESB) should be used. We need to reflect this in the cryptography algorithm section as well by integrating the curves directly in the first table. ES256--> ESP256 or ESB256.

Author: SD-JWT VC spec still uses ES256 and refers to RFC 7515. Maybe we can wait for an update in the spec before we make changes here?

Reviewer: That reference in the SD-JWT VC is used for the JWT claims and not for the cryptographic material. As in the OpenID4VP, they already put the references to the new specs, so maybe we can update it?

            }, 
            "mso_mdoc": {

>                 "issuerauth_alg_values": [-7, -35, -36],

Reviewer: As it is mentioned [here](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9864#section-4.2.2), the ECDSA w/ SHA-256 (ES256) is deprecated, and either the NIST curve (ESP) or the brainpool curve (ESB) should be used. We need to reflect this in the cryptography algorithm section as well by integrating the curves directly in the first table. ES256--> ESP256 or ESB256. Therefore, in this example, the equivalent cose values should be updated.

Author: Right now we follow the ISO 18013-5:2021. In this version, it still says we can use ES256, ES384, ES512 and EdDSA with the curves listed (P-256 and brainpoolP256r1 for ES256, etc.). 
The new version is coming, maybe it will follow RFC 9864 later. But until the new ISO is official, I think we should keep ES256 like it is written now, with the curves.
Maybe we can add a small note: 'Future versions may use fully-specified algorithms like ESP256'. What do you think?

Reviewer: Adding a note maybe is an option.

>                 "deviceauth_alg_values": [-7, -35, -36]

Author: OpenID4VP defines the mdoc metadata as vp_formats_supported.mso_mdoc.issuerauth_alg_values and deviceauth_alg_values (Appendix B.2.2), so I`ll update docs/en/relying-party-metadata.rst to match this structure.

            }
          },

>           "request_object_signing_alg_values_supported": ["ES256"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "request_object_signing_alg_values_supported": ["ESP256"],
```

>           "client_id_prefixes_supported": ["openid_federation", "x509_hash"]

Author: Fixed.

        "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
        "vp_token": {
          "personal id data": ["eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...PT0iXX0"]
          "mobile driving license": ["o2Nkb2N0eXBlb3Jzby4xO...Nib3JfZHVtbXk"]
        }
      }

.. note::

>   When returning a requested Credential in ``mso_mdoc`` format in the ``vp_token``, the Wallet MUST cryptographically bind the resulting mdoc presentation to the current OpenID4VP transaction. To achieve this, the Wallet builds the ISO ``SessionTranscript`` used for mdoc device authentication and applies the OpenID4VP profiling rules by setting ``DeviceEngagementBytes`` to ``null`` and ``EReaderKeyBytes`` to ``null``, and sets its ``Handover`` field to an OpenID4VP-defined structure (``OpenID4VPHandover``) derived from the Authorization Request parameters. The Wallet then computes the mdoc device authentication (device signature) over data that includes this ``SessionTranscript``, such that the resulting mdoc presentation is valid only for that specific OpenID4VP transaction. For the normative definition of ``OpenID4VPHandover`` and the corresponding ``SessionTranscript`` profiling rules, see `OpenID4VP`_ Appendix B.2.

Author: In OpenID4VP Appendix B.2.6.1 (“Invocation via Redirects”), the SessionTranscript profiling for redirect-based invocation explicitly requires DeviceEngagementBytes = null and EReaderKeyBytes = null, with Handover set to OpenID4VPHandover.

   * - Parameter
     - Description
   * - `vp_formats_supported`

>      - REQUIRED. Object with Credential format identifiers supported by the Wallet Instance (e.g., dc+sd-jwt, mso_mdoc). See `OpenID4VP`_ Appendix B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - REQUIRED. object containing a list of name/value pairs, where the name is a Credential Format Identifier and the value defines format-specific parameters that a Wallet supports (e.g., dc+sd-jwt, mso_mdoc). See `OpenID4VP`_ Appendix B.
```

  For security reasons and to prevent endpoint mix-up attacks, the value contained in the ``response_uri`` parameter MUST be one of those attested by a trusted third party, such as those provided in the ``openid_credential_verifier`` metadata within the ``response_uris`` parameter, obtained from the Trust Chain about the Relying Party (:ref:`WP_091a <wallet-credential-presentation-testcases>` and :ref:`RPR-112 <test-plans-remote-presentation:Remote Credential Verifier Test Matrix>`).

.. note::
   The ``transaction_data`` parameter is intended for use cases where the Wallet Instance MUST authorize a specific transaction, such as payment initiation or digital signing. In these high-sensitivity scenarios, the goal is to bind the transaction details to the Authorization Response so that integrity is preserved and the User’s approval can be proven afterwards (non-repudiation).
   The binding mechanism depends on the Credential Format:

>      - **dc+sd-jwt**: the Wallet binds the transaction data by returning ``transaction_data_hashes`` (and, when applicable, ``transaction_data_hashes_alg``) inside the Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT). See `OpenID4VP`_, Section 8.4 for further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - **dc+sd-jwt**: the Wallet binds the transaction data by returning ``transaction_data_hashes`` (and, when applicable, ``transaction_data_hashes_alg``) inside the Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT). See `OpenID4VP`_, Appendix B.3.3 for further details.
```

>      - **dc+sd-jwt**: the Wallet binds the transaction data by returning ``transaction_data_hashes`` (and, when applicable, ``transaction_data_hashes_alg``) inside the Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT). See `OpenID4VP`_, Appendix B.3.3 for further details.

Reviewer 2: Problem here with indentation https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/actions/runs/21713937273/job/62624535234?pr=984

Author: fixed.
